#summary Frequently Asked Questions

= FAQ =

== You add the page ID at end of URL. How can I change that? ==

if you want to get ride of this ID you can set PAGE_UNIQUE_SLUG_REQUIRED to True into your settings and the default front end will use the slug instead of the ID of the page.

== How can I specify a meta description for each page and for each language? ==

If you want to have a field for the description meta tag just add a placeholder in your template:

{{{
<meta name="keywords" content="{% placeholder meta_description current_page TextInput %}" />
}}}

And an translated field should appears in the admin.

== How can I show content part of the page without using a placeholder?==

The show_content template tags is here for that:

{{{
{% show_content the_page_object "the_content_type" %}
}}}

You can also specify the slug of the page instead of the page object itself:

{{{
{% show_content "my-page-slug" "the_content_type" %}
}}}

== Nothing show up at the frontend. What is the problem? ==

 * Check that you have set your site domain name correctly (ie: for local-host development you will need to set it to 127.0.0.1:8000)
 * Check that you have published the page correctly

== The tree collapse and doesn't expand. What is the problem? ==

 * Check that you have set your site domain name correctly (ie: for local-host development you will need to set it to 127.0.0.1:8000, you use localhost:8000 you must have an entry called localhost:8000). 

 * Check also that the SITE_ID you have in your settings file is the one you are using to access.

==Add a language prefix before the urls==

 # change the url routing to accept a language prefix parameter (lang_id)
 # change the default "details" view to accept this parameter and change this line 

{{{
lang = get_language_from_request(request)
}}}
into
{{{
lang = lang_id
}}}
 
Done.

== I have an error trying to display a page in the admin ==

Check you have added the pages middleware and context processor. You have to add

{{{
'pages.middleware.CurrentSiteMiddleware',
}}}

in the middleware section,MIDDLEWARE_CLASSES, in your settings.py (see the example that comes with page-cms) and you have to add 

{{{
"pages.context_processors.media",
}}}

in the TEMPLATE_CONTEXT_PROCESSORS section
 